Recommendation Engine:
Recommender system use both supervised and unsupervised learning technique to help users to find what they are looking for among various items. For analysing data, these systems predict user preference and choice to filter the items effectively. We use recommender system widely these days.
Example: Netflix, YouTube, Amazon, where personalised recommendations are generated by user preferences and interactions with the platform.
There are three types of Recommenders systems.
1.	Collaborative Filtering
2.	Content Filtering
3.	Hybrid Filtering
Collaborative Filtering: It idea is considering the similarities between users and items and parallelly we generate the recommendations.
If two person like the same products in the past, if anyone like the new items ,the other is likely too, so we recommend the new items to that person. This model helps the user to discover the new interest.
Advantage: It does not need to understand the domain knowledge to train the model because the embeddings are automatically learned.
Content Filtering: It idea is that to identity items based on previous items. In other words, it describes the items to what users like. 
Advantage: It captures the specific interests of the individual user.
Hybrid Filtering: It combines both methods recommendations.
ALS- Alternative Least Square :
It is a Matrix Factorization algorithm , start with user- Item matrix with feedback .
Each row is a user and column is an item if the user has provided a rating then we populate the relevant entry .the goal is to find the two matrices users and products. This algorithm tries to minimise an objective function .
Explicit Vs Implicit in user - item Matrix
To implement the recommendation system can be explicit such as review, rating.
It can be implicit such as behaviour and events like buying a products, watching a films, clicks.This implicit data is harder to process because it is hard to find what information is useful and useless. We can use to build the recommender system.
1-Dimension Embedding: we capture the users preferences but not fully capturing so we consider 2- Dimension Embedding better result than 1 -Dimension. When we carry out collaborative filtering, embedding automatically done by machine.
ALS – Advantages
Scalability: handle the large dataset effectively
Flexibility: apply many types of recommendations use cases.
Implicit feedback handling: data like reviews, clicks handle effectively.
Parallelization: leverage the modern hardware, so it speeds up the training process.
ALS – Disadvantages
Cold start Problem: its difficult for new users to recommend the products because no iteration history.
Hyperparameter Tuning: find the optimal value for these parameters – regparam, usercol, itemcol can be challenging.
Overfitting: when dealing with noisy and sparse data easily affect overfitting problem.

